A Chinese Graduate Student

One day when Fan was 5, his mom taught him that America is a foreign country, but a foreign country may not be America. During the same week, Fan passed his newly acquired knowledge to his best friend, "Do you know a foreign country is America, but America may not be a foreign country?"

One afternoon of his 4th grade summer, Fan spotted a glittering one-yuan coin on the side of a road. He picked it up and started examining it. It was such a delicate coin. The printing of the number one was beautiful. It had patterns of flowers on it. Fan couldn't remember ever seeing a coin with flowers on it. He bursted with joy when he realized that he had found a US-dollar. He shouted to his friends nearby, "I found a dollar! I found a dollar!" His friends challenged him why there was a Chinese character on the US-dollar. Fan could not think of a reason and agreed that was a mystery.

The same summer he watched on TV the rerun of Growing Pains, an 80's American sitcom. He watched the rerun again the next summer, then again the next summer. He really enjoyed the show. However he was deeply annoyed by one flaw of the show when it happened. The eldest son in the family of Growing Pains was called Michael, he was the star of the show. From one episode on, out of the blue, Michael's voice would suddenly change to a different voice totally unrecognizable. It was like he had become a whole new person at the beginning of a new season. Fan understood that when Michael grew older his voice would change from a child's voice to an adult voice, but he didn't expect such a dramatic change.

In defense of the American sitcom, Growing Pains, Fan was not actually watching the original version of the show. He was watching a Chinese dubbed version. There were actually two voice actors behind the character Michael, one for the younger Michael, one for the oldder Michael.

There were a lot of people at Pudong International Airport. A big portable screen placed in front of an entrance of a security screening area blocks the view inside. Fan, dragging a carry-on luggage, walked alongside the crowd. When he got near enough to the edge of the screen, he turned back and gave a smile full of sunshine and waved a quick goodbye to his parents. In his mind the screen was already the border between America and China that he was going to cross. Once he passed the screen, he would have passed the point of no return. He decided to walk in like a hero without tears. Fan took big steps, not looking back. His parents waved back and said goodbye again and again until Fan disappeared behind the big room divider that divides two different worlds.

Fan, 22, had never been to an airport before. He had never been aboard before. He had never been to America before. He did not try to tell apart these first experiences when they happened simultaneously. 

Fully expecting being surprised by new experiences, Fan's jaw dropped when he saw the big bustling space behind the screen. There seemed at least 20 lines of people waiting to pass security check, some putting luggages on belts, some standing in the middle of security scanners hands up, some unfastening their belts. There are people wearing security guard uniforms everywhere. This new sight of one aspect of society Fan had never saw before reinforced his sense that he was not in China anymore.

While Fan was being impressed, life suddenly happened and hit his head with a plastic chalkboard eraser.

"Sir, you cannot carry this onto a plane", a female staff took a box of mini screwdriver set out Fan's luggage and hold it in front of him. "You can either throw it away, or mail it back home for 20 yuan."

Fan looked back toward the screen he just passed and realized he was really on his own now. Fan calculated that the screwdrivers were worth more than 20 yuan so he agreed to mail them home.