Sitting in front a computer in a darkroom, Fan was reading an email that caused him a lot of anxiety. The email was from the University of Wisconsin mathematics department asking him to arrive for orientation on May 16th. Fan had thought he would have had a long summer to relax before leaving for the United States. A problem he only needed to worry about in a few months was suddenly in his face only a few weeks away.

"Dad! Dad! Come over here!"

"What happened?", his father opened the door to Fan's room and switched on the light.

"I have to leave for America in May. Before May 16th. There's an orientation. I just received this email from the University of Wisconsin."

"Okay, what does the email say, translate it sentence by sentence."

Fan read the email out loud in Chinese for his father while double checking his understanding of the email was correct.

"Okay, I will call the travel agency tomorrow." Fan's father pointed at a date on the calendar Fan already opened up on the computer screen, "Should I book a flight on May 9th?"

"I don't want to leave so early."

"How about May 12th?"

"I don't want to go to America before May 16th!"

"Do you have another option?"

Reluctantly Fan calculated the date. If he left China on May 12th, he would arrive at America still on May 12th because China was roughly 12 hours ahead of America. The actual flight would be longer than 12 hours. There would also be layovers. He would got to Madison at latest May 13th. Then he would have two full days to recover from jet lags and settled down before attending the orientation.

"How about May 13th?" Fan wanted to have one more day at home.

"Only one day to settle down is too risky. You should leave plenty of rooms in travel plans" Fan's mom stood by his father.

The whole family agreed on May 12th. Then Fan's father started to think about the travel plan. His mother started think about the list of things needed in America. Fan dragged himself to his bed and drop himself on it, facing down, then too gloomy to move.
