I am the guardian angel of Fan. I see the world on earth through his eyes. I accumulate my knowledge of human as he grows up. I am his subconcious mind, intuition and impulses. I am the reason he obeys the rules of the sun, the moon, and the venus. I observe Fan and his surroundings. Sometimes I write pieces of his life. 

I remember the first day I met Fan. That was the first memory of myself as well.

The sun was positioned in the sign of Cancer. In the biggest hospital of a small town in China, I appeared as the guardian angel of a baby girl who was going to be born. I waited to be bonded with her the moment right after she was born. But I waited and waited. The bonding never happened. She did not make it. After a few hours of chaos I re-emerged as the guardian angel of a baby boy who just got out of his mom's tummy in a room a few doors down the hall from the baby girl's room. The boy was not moving or crying either. I waited. It was the sad scene all over again. Everyone seemed in slow motion. The exhausted mother's face was blushing and sweaty. Her watering eyes, filled with expectations, searched for answers. A nurse picked up the baby boy's tiny feet, holding him upside down, and slapped his naked butt several times. Suddenly the bonding happened. The boy and I became one. I could not tell if it was the baby boy or me who was crying. I was struck by a sensation of innocence and curiosity. I began adopting the baby's personality since that moment. Suddenly I was humane. Suddenly I knew nothing.

Later in the hospital, the parents named the baby boy Fan. Fan's name in Chinese means the sail of a boat. His parents wished their baby smooth sailing in life.

22 years later.

Around noon at the Pudong international airport. Fan and his parents sat in a fancy restaurant waiting, chatting, and eating their spaghetti. Mr. Zheng was definitely in a good mood. He was proud that his son was going to study in the USA, a dream he once wanted to pursuit but decided to give up. Mrs. Zheng was proud of his son too, but she was more relaxed than excited. Fan was calm, trying to save energy for the long journey. Nervousness and jitters were at the bottom of his stomach, he remained calm to avoid stirring those feelings up.

"Your life has been a smooth sail. Too smooth for you to grow up! I hope when you are in America you can experience some setbacks. Do you know how to wash your own clothes?" Mrs. Zheng put her fork down after trying to gather and a forkfull of spaghetti to no avail.

"Of course he knows how to wash his clothes. Did he not wash his clothes in college? You always focus on the trivial stuff. He will be a great mathematician some day. Who has time to wash clothes?" Mr. Zheng gave his son a mischievous look and transported a meatball using chopsticks to his mouth and gobbled it down.

"Can you not make so much noise when you eat?" Mrs. Zheng was either slightly annoyed by the noodles that kept sliding and dancing off her fork or by his husband chewing. "Fan, you cannot eat like your father when you are in America. The Americans will look down on us and say the Chinese are badly brought up."

Fan, holding a fork in the left hand and chopsticks in the right hand, picked up some noodles and started sucking as loud as he could. Fan looked up to meet his mom's stare and smiled.

"Son, you should use a fork instead of chopsticks when eating spaghetti." Mrs. Zheng put down her fork and picked up a pair of clean chopsticks and start enjoying her noodles without the slightest sign of realization of the irony.

"Keep using your fork then." Mr. Zheng laughed and picked up her fork and handed it back to her.

"The chopsticks are more convenient after all. Plus I am not the one who is going to America. What time is the plane again?" Mrs. Zheng smiled in her eyes but not her lips after realizing the irony and immediately changed the subject.

"Two thirty-five. We have plenty of time" Mr. Zheng replied immediately.

"Yes, it was two thirty-five pm. But I need to board the plane an hour before the plane takes off. I should give myself an hour to pass the security check. We still have half an hour." Fan took out a plastic file folder out of his backpack, took out three plane tickets from the folder and show them to his mom. One ticket is from Shanghai to Chicago. One ticket is from Chicago to Madison. One ticket is the actual boarding pass for the plane from Shanghai to Chicago.

"Put them back, don't lose them." Mrs. Zheng instructed his son. 

Fan carefully put the tickets back into his file folder and put the file folder back in his backpack. Inside the file folder, there were some brochures that he got when he bought the plane tickets, his passport, student visa document I-20, a receipt of payment of some fee to some US bureau, admisson letter from mathematics department of University of Wisconsin - Madison, diploma of his bachelor's degree from USTC (University of Science and Technology of China), transcripts from USTC, TOFEL transcripts, GRE transcripts, three photos of him with his parents, an envelope of 200 RMB, a key to his parent's new home which was still under renovation, an envelope of almost 2000 US dollars. "Amost" because Fan scattered some cash in different pockets just in case he lost the envelope. Fan had used the same file folder to keep the most legally important documents to him ever since. Only years later Fan was sure he had no use of the plane tickets and the related brochures, picked them out of the folder and threw them away.

"Remember I had been practicing eating salad. I am okay eating Cubid salad with cucumbers, but not potatoes." Fan continued the conversation on American food. Cubid was a brand of salad dressing in China. Only then Fan confused salad with salad dressing. 








Fan grew up in China. So I know China pretty well. Fan took a lot of math classes in college, so I got a hang of math too. Fan went to America for graduate school. I get to see the USA. In this book, I want to tell you my adventure in America, I mean, Fan's adventure.

First let me tell you a little bit of what Fan already knew about America growing up in China. You know, to set up a baseline.

Fan formed the concept of America when he was around 5 years old. He knew that China was where he lived. He knew that there were people living in places beyond China called "America". However, Mrs. Zheng suspected his son believed there were only two countries in the world, so she told him,

"There are many countries in the world. China is a country. America is a country. America is a foreign country, but a foreign country does not have to be America."

The next day, Fan passed his newly acquired knowledge to his best friend, "Do you know there are many countries in the world? China is a country. America is a country. A foreign country is America, uh...uh," Fan was confused half way through the sentence, but determined to finish it, "America does not have to be a foreign country."

My point is that he kind of knew what America was when he was 5.

When Fan was around 8, he tasted an American chocolate, which was brought back by his friend's father from a trip to America. He only got to have a small bite of a piece of the chocolate, but he was so impressed  by the flavor that he remembered and was able to identify what he just had decades later. How could a chocolate tasted like mint? At the time his explanation was it was American. Now he believes it must have been York Peppermint Pattie.

When Fan was around 10, he demonstrated that he wanted to go study in Harvard University someday by spending all morning painting the word "Harvard" on the back of a calendar paper. The paper was as long as Fan's legs and wider than Fan's shoulders. He painted the word large enough to fill the space of the paper. He used a ballpen to color it blue, which took him at least two hours to finish. After showing his parents his Harvard ambition on a calendar paper, he was tired and hungry. He had lunch, a nap after lunch, and watched TV all afternoon. Fan didn't go to Harvard eventually.

He was probably still 10. On a sunny afternoon, Fan spotted a glittering one-yuan coin on the side of a road. He picked it up and started examining it. It was such a beautiful coin. The printing of the number one was delicate. It had patterns of flowers on it. Fan couldn't remember ever seeing a coin so big and with flowers on it. He bursted with joy when he realized that he had found a US-dollar. He shouted to his friends nearby, "I found a dollar! I found a dollar!" His friends challenged him with questions like why there was a Chinese character on the US-dollar. Fan could not think of a reason and agreed it was a mystery.

During the following summer vacation, Fan watched on TV the rerun of Growing Pains, an 80's American sitcom. He watched the rerun again the next summer, then again the next summer. He really enjoyed the show. So did I. I do not remember whether Fan knew people did not actually speak Chinese in the American shows, but I do remember it really annoyed him when the dubbing voice actor was suddenly changed when Micahel was too grown up to have a kid's voice.

Students in China commonly have 6 years of elementary school, 3 years of middle school, 3 years of high school. Before elementary school is kindergarten. Fan learned at least one English song when he was in kindergarten. It went like, 

Happy new year, happy new year
Happy new year to you all
We are dancing, we are singing
Happy new year to you all

Fan did not understand what he was singing, he did not know it was English. He just liked making weird sound. It was an opportunity for him to release some child energy.

Fan's friend dined at KFC once around their 4th grade. Fan asked him all about what it was like.

"There was a picece of fried chicken, mashed potatoes, and a bread." The friend tried to remember.

Fan loved roast chicken, but he never had fried chicken before. Fan's imagination of mashed potatoes was from a cartoon based on a German fairytale "The Robber Hotzenplotz", in which an evil magician needs eating mashed patotoes in order to perform magic. So it all came down to the bread, when Fan wanted to judge the KFC meal his friend had.

"How big is the bread? This big?", Fan asked guesturing a circle.

"Smaller"

"This big?", Fan made the circle smaller.

"Smaller"

"This big?", Fan was already in disbelief.

"Yes, pretty much!"

Fan was disappointed at the size of the bread and thought he did not miss much not having KFC.

The other brand the kids talked about from time to time was MacDonald, but whenever Fan heard his friends saying "MacDonald", he wondered why it was not pronounced "Madonna". Fan had his first American fast food in his 6th grade. His parents finally took him to a MacDonald in downtown Nanjing. It was such a new experience. When the family sat down, Mrs Zheng saw everyone drink soda using a straw, so he asked Fan

"Fan, can you go get us some straws?"

"But I don't know how." Fan replied.

"Figure it out, ask people. Don't be afraid all the time. You need practice."

Fan observed that people taking straws out of a box with the word "Straw" on it, but he did not see exactly how. He tentatively pressed the only part that seemed movable on the box and a couple of straws fell out. It turned out to be quite easy.

The MacDonald experience let Fan discover ketchup. Soon he found out one can buy bottles of it in grocery store. He had a phase of putting ketchup on everything. He did not really like the taste, but he enjoyed the idea.

In 6th grade summer, Fan's friend asked Fan to see Space Jam together in a movie theatre downtown, just the two of them. But Fan had never taking a bus downtown without his parents before. He wanted to go but doubted his parents would allow him to go on his own. It was lunch time when Fan gathered his courage to ask his parents permission to go with his friend to see Space Jam. Fan was nervous and his right upper eyelid twitched uncontrollably. Fan wondered why his eyelid twiched so violently.

"Mom, Dad? Tian wants me to go to see Space Jam with him? Can I go?"

"Sure! Just the two of you?" Mrs Zheng said.

"Yes." 

"Do be careful when you cross the street. Make sure you look both sides before you cross. How much is the ticket?"

Fan could not believe it was that easy. Space Jam was the first movie Fan saw in a movie theater without an adult gardian. Emboldened by the experience, Fan and his friends went to see Deep Impact and Rush Hour the next summer at downtown movie theaters.

This mundane event had a long lasting side effect on Fan, which had nothing to do with the movie. Ever since, Fan believed good things would happen to him whenever his right upper eyelid twitched. This belief was strengthened a couple of years later during a math final exam. When Fan was stuck at the last problem in the test, his right upper eyelid twitched at that moment. Then he calmed down because he knew he would solve the problem for sure. In the end he did solve the problem. Only three students in his class solved it.

Fan's elementary school started teaching English in 5th grade. But it played a less important role in students' grade than other subjects. For example a full score in Math or Chinese was 100. The full score in English was only 20. Only when it got to middle school, English became as important as Mathematics and Chinese.

During the 7th grade, Fan's English teacher organized a cookout on the school soccer field. The mud field had almost no grass growing, so it was okay starting wood fire on the field. The kids brought their own wood, wok, spatula, raw meat, vegetables. During the cookout, a teacher from America visited and talked to the kids. When the teacher passed Fan's group, Fan smiled, but too shy to say anything. Later one of Fan's friend told him that he talked to the American teacher.

"What did you say to him?" Fan was jealous because he knew he got a better grade in English than his friend.

"I showed him a sandwich, and I said, 'Do you want it?', and he said, 'No thanks'"

"Do you want it? It was so simple. Why did not I think of it?" This left an impression on Fan, at least until the next time he had an opportunity to talk to a native English speaker.

During the cookout, Fan's English teacher took photos of the kids. Then she put the pictures in envelopes and gave them out during class as gifts. Fan's photos are enclosed in an Winnie-the-Pooh themed envelope. Fan never saw the cartoon, but he associated it with good feelings.

The American teacher who visited Fan's 7th grade soccer field cookout later offered English classes in Fan's middle school. Fan was one of the 7 students of the 7th grade who enrolled in the class. It was on Sunday afternoons and it cost 10 yuan for each class. In the first class, the American teacher passed out a paper with a list of American names for the students to pick. Fan picked the name Rob. Then the teacher showed the students the meaning of the word rob by covering his face with the colar of his jacket, and holding up a finger gun, saying "Give me your money". I remember I thought Americans were so dramatic. Meanwhile Fan regretted the choice of his English name. A girl who attended the same class later sent Fan a Christmas card addressing him as Rob. So Fan thought he was stuck with the English name at least in middle school.

In the summer of 7th grade, Fan and his friend attended a citywise English competition. Kids acted in a 5-minute play speaking English, and judges gave them a score. Fan wrote his own play. It was a scene of two brazil soccer fans, in statium, watching the 1998 world cup final match between France and Brazil. Then history happened. France won 3 to 0. As a result, Fan changed the script so that it was about two French soccer fans instead. When Fan prepared the props, painting France flags on white caps and on white stickers that would be put on faces, he realized it would be so much harder to do Brazil flags. He had blue and red pens, not yellow and green pens. Fan did not win any prize in the end. But all he remembered was that a Canadian judge gave him and his friend's performance a 98 out 100. All the other judges are Chinese and it was an English competition, so...

The last event of the English competition was a picnic at a park. The Canadian judge was surrounded by high schoolers or college students who could acutally hold a conversation with him. Fan hold a dessert waiting patiently outside the circle. When opportunity presented itself, Fan raised the dessert and asked the Candian judge,

"Do you want it?"

"No thanks!"

Fan was pleased. Later Fan asked him to sign his notebook, but the Canadian kept Fan's ballpen and used it to sign other people's notebooks. Fan saw that as an opportunity and waited patiently again, when he was not busy, Fan said to the Canadian,

"Excuse me, that is my ballpen!"

The Canadian and people surrounded him all laughed.

In the 8th grade, Fan participated in a performance of "Old MacDonald Had A Farm", in which students wear costumes of farm animals and sang the English song. Some boys complained that they were too old to do that. Fan felt the same way. However, June 1st that year they would have their last celebration of International Children's Day, so Fan thought they were still recognized as children by the international community.

Fan was pretty good in English in middle. Fan had certain authority among students when it came to English. During an English class, the teacher was absent and a class monitor was left to quiz students on volcabulary. When Fan was asked to stand up and spell the word "modern", he said "M-O-R-D-E-R-N". The monitor did not hear clearly due to the chaos of the class without a teacher. Instead of asking Fan to repeat, she assumed Fan got it right and moved on to the next student. Fan later attended a very selective high school, in which Fan's English suddenly became average among his peers.

