Fan grew up on the campus of the NJUST. (Nanjing University of Science and Technology). Parents of his childhood friends all worked jobs associated to the University.

The year was 1990, Fan was 5. He went to the kindergarten associated with NJUST .

. . Fan's mom was a typist in an editorial office, which edited journals published by the University. Fan's father had not worked for the University for long before he started his own business of selling automatic lightbulb switches he and his colleague invented during his gradute student years in University of Science and Technonogy of China. The collabaration between 



Mrs. Zheng liked to attend balls held by the University. She took his son with her and put him in a room next to the dance floor with other kids. Once Fan sat on a chair, his feet dangling in the air. Sitting next to him was a classmate he knew from kindergarten. The two kids were surrounded by eager adults. One adult asked whether they could count. Fan started counting timidly,

"One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, uh..." Fan stucked at 12.

The adults started to encourage the other kid to count. He counted to twenty and kept on going. The adults all praised how smart the other kid was. Fan was embarrased. 

Fan began to form the concept of "America". China was where he was in. But not everyone lived in China. There were people living in places beyond China called "America". When Mrs. Zheng suspected that his son thought there were only two countries in the world, she told him,

"There are many countries in the world. China is a country. America is a country. America is a foreign country, but a foreign country does not have to be America."

The next day, Fan passed his newly acquired knowledge to his best friend, "Do you know there are many countries in the world? China is a country. America is a country. A foreign country is America, uh...uh," Fan was confused half way through the sentence, but determined to finish it, "America does not have to be a foreign country."

Fan lived on a University campus. 

One day in Fan's second grade Chinese class, the teacher taught the alphabet table 

a b c d e f g
h i j k l m n
o p q   r s t
u v w   x y z

The teacher would read a letter, and the students repeated the letter. Then the teacher would read a line, and the students repeated the line. The teacher didn't tell the students what she was teaching, but Fan figured it out himself that he was learning English. It could not be pinyin, because they had learned the alphabet table for pinyin, which was in completely different order.

b p m f 
d t n l 
g k h
j q x
z c s
zh ch sh 
r y w

a o e i u
...

Fan was excited. By the end of the class Fan could recite the whole table. It was the last period before students went home for lunch. When the bell rang, Fan was still immersed in the rhythm of the alphabet table. He rapped the alphabet table again and again on his way home until he came across a cluster of kids surrounding a cart, raising their money, shouting and waving to get the vendor's attention, trying to buy snacks. Fan felt a dime in his pocket and joined the kids.

It was not until the 3rd grade, Fan tasted an American chocolate. Fan and a few other kids was playing at his friend's home. His friend showed them a chocolate that his father brought back from a trip to America. The kids shared the one piece of chocolate. Fan took a small bite, savoring it and then looking confused. Fan passed the rest of the chocolate to next kid and did not say anything. In his head, he was surprised that the American chocolate did not taste very good. It tasted like mint. But he quickly he accepted the fact: American chocolate was minty. The chocolate Fan had was York Peppermint Pattie.

In 5th grade, the school started teaching English. Then Fan realized the alphabet table he learned in 2nd grade was not exactly English since they sounded totally different. It did not bother him in any way. It was just confusing.

On a sunny afternoon, Fan spotted a glittering one-yuan coin on the side of a road. He picked it up and started examining it. It was such a beautiful coin. The printing of the number one was delicate. It had patterns of flowers on it. Fan couldn't remember ever seeing a coin so big and has flowers on it. He bursted with joy when he realized that he had found a US-dollar. He shouted to his friends nearby, "I found a dollar! I found a dollar!" His friends challenged him with questions like why there was a Chinese character on the US-dollar. Fan could not think of a reason and agreed that was a mystery.

During the following summer vacation, Fan watched on TV the rerun of Growing Pains, an 80's American sitcom. He watched the rerun again the next summer, then again the next summer. He really enjoyed the show. However he was deeply annoyed by one flaw of the show when it happened. The eldest son in the family of Growing Pains was called Michael. From one episode on, out of the blue, Michael's voice would change to a totally different one. It was like he had become a whole new person. Fan understood that when Michael grew older his voice would change from a child's voice to an adult voice, but he didn't like the drastic change.

In defense of the American sitcom, Fan was not actually watching the original version of the Growing Pains. He was watching a Chinese dubbed version. There were actually two voice actors behind the character Michael, one for the younger Michael, one for the oldder Michael.


