Li Xiaoyao has been badly wounded from previous battle. He collapses on the ground and spits out a lot of blood. Zhao Ling'er wants to help him but she cannot. A gigantic water monster is hovering above the nearby lake. It towers over them. Zhao Ling'er changes into her top-human bottom-serpent form and flies towards the roaring monster but only be swallowed whole by it. However she dives deeper instead of trying to get out. Inside the monster, she finds its core magic source and destroys it with all her power. The monster exploded into pieces and scattered into the lake. Zhao Ling'er is exhausted and fatally injured. Not being able to move let alone flying, she falls into the deep dark lake. Li Xiaoyao struggles to stand up, eyes searching the surface of the lake. Such a long time has passed, the lake returns to its original tranquil state like nothing has happened. When the knowledge that his wife has died hits him, Li Xiaoyao loses it. He shouts hysterically to the lake, to the sky. He blames himself for not being able to save the love of his life. He blames Zhao Ling'er for not keeping her promise of never leaving him. 

Just when all hope is gone, Li Xiaoyao heard someone calling him, "Xiaoyao... Xiaoyao". It's the voice of her but he could not see her anywhere. The next moment, Zhao Ling'er, in her human form, rises from the lake like a ghost or a fairy. Gradually her image changes from surreal to real. She smiles and appears intact. She glides across the lake and lands in front of her husband with ease.

"Ling'er? Is that really you?" Li Xiaoyao cannot believe what he sees.

Zhao Ling'er touches his nose affectionately, which assures Li Xiaoyao that her wife is indeed alive. He hugs her tight. He does not know how she is still alive, but all he can think about is gratitude for a second chance of life.

"Thank god, you are alive!"

"Silly, I have promised that I will never leave you. I am not going to die." Zhao Ling'er's voice is feeble but jovial.

Li Xiaoyao and Zhao Ling'er, holding hands, strolls a scenic path.

"So this is the plan. We first rest a few days. Then I will take you to my hometown." Li Xiaoyao suggests.

"Sounds good, I miss your aunt and your friend 'Little Tiger'" Zhao Ling'er is agreeable as usual.

"I miss them too. But remember, we should keep our daughter away from them as much as possible. They are bad influences to her." Li Xiaoyao does have a point.

Zhao Ling'er giggles.

"Do you think our daughter will look more like you or me when she grows up?" Li Xiaoyao really enjoys being a father.

"You, of course" Zhao Ling'er looks at her husband with admiration.

"I hope she has your eyes and my nose. So it's best she half looks like you and half looks like me..." Li Xiaoyao lets go of the hand that held Zhao Ling'er's and points to his own nose.

It takes him a while to register that his own hand in front of his nose is covered with blood. He looks to Zhao Ling'er for the source of blood and realizes that he has been too happy to notice the declining state of his wife. The back of her garment is soaked with red. Blood trickles down her arms and hands. She has left a trail of red and is standing in a pool of blood.

"Ling'er, you..." Li Xiaoyao cannot comprehend what is happening.

"Xiaoyao, I am okay. Let's go home."

"Ling'er, what's happening to you?"

"I am okay, Xiaoyao, really. Let's go home. Go home..." She starts to have difficulty forming a full sentence. Then she collapses into his arms.

"Promise me, never leave me." Ling'er can hardly keeps her eyes open.

"Ling'er! Ling'er!" Li Xiaoyao wants to keep her awake.

"I am not... going to die. I will... never... leave you. I made a... promise. I will... stay... by... your side forever. Xiaoyao... never had... parents by his... side. He always... pretends... that he... does not care. He actually... cares... more than... anyone. Xiaoyao... had a... difficult life. All of... his loved ones have died. Ling'er... does not... want him... to be all alone. I promised I... will... give you... happiness", Zhao Ling'er is vomiting and gulping her own blood. Every word out of her mouth is a struggle.

Li Xiaoyao cannot bare seeing his wife in such a pain. He does not want Zhao Ling'er to be tortured by her own will of keeping her promise.

"Just leave me. I will be fine." Li Xiaoyao says.

Zhao Ling'er shakes her head.

"Ling'er, listen to me. I am your husband, I am your Xiaoyao. Trust me. I will be fine in this world without you."

"I want... to... go home. I want... to... go to your... hometown. I am... the wife... of Xiaoyao... I am also from... the town of Yuhang. We are... country bumpkins. Take me... home."

"Okay. I will take you. I will take you to our hometown."

Li Xiaoyao carries Zhao Ling'er in his arms and walks slowly in no particular direction. Zhao Ling'er surrounds both her arms around his neck. Their heads touch each other.

"Ling'er, if you feel tired, just close your eyes."

"No."

"Have a nap."

"I am afraid... I will not... wake up again."

"Silly, when we get home, I will wake you up." Li Xiaoyao repels another rush of sadness attacking his heart.

"Really?"

"When we get home, my aunt, our daughter and I will wake you up together. Okay?"

"Do not lie to Ling'er"

"When has Xiaoyao ever lied to Ling'er? Have a nap."

Ling'er has a last look of Xiaoyao, feeling trust and safe. She closes her eyes. Her arms around his neck drop.

That was it. That was the ending of the TV series Chinese Paladin adapted from the original version of the role-playing video game The Legend of Sword and Fairy.

"Love is holding on, not letting go, stupid!" Fan stopped the video player of some movie streaming website. He had been binge-watching the show for a week. The ending made him upset. If he was Li Xiaoyao, he would never allow Zhao Ling'er to die. Fan had a crush on Zhao Ling'er, and he could not bare the thought that he lost her forever.

After a minute, Fan adjusted his thoughts from the fantacy world to the real one. He started to google the cast of the show. The actress who played the fairy maid Zhao Ling'er was Liu Yifei. She was going to school at the Beijing Film Academy.

After web surfing, Fan checked his university emails. One email really brought Fan back down to earth. It actually made him stressed. The email was from the University of Wisconsin mathematics department asking him to arrive for orientation on May 21st. Fan had thought he would have a whole summer to get emotionally ready before leaving for the United States. Now he only had two weeks. He had nothing prepared except having bought 30 GTM books. GTM stands for Graduate Texts in Mathematics.

Hi Diary,

Today all the graduates of math department wore white T-shirts with a big logo on the back that I designed. The logo consists the word "math" and the department number 03001. I made a V sign, the hand gesture, out of the letter "m" and the number "03", where "m" is drawn like the index and middle finger and "0" being the thumb, "3" being the ring finger and pinky. I know, I am a genius. It was a shame that they did not consult me when they printed my logo on a t-shirt. It ended up not looking very good. I wish they have made the strokes bolder. And what's with the print of the name of our university? "USTC" looks like "VSTC" and no one even complained about it.

I did not go to the graduation ceremony today. My roommates told me it was pretty boring. I went to the university bookstore and bought ¥1000 worth of GTM books. It was really exciting. When I open a new math book and scan the table of contents, my blood boils. It gives me a hope that I will master the content inside soon. I wish I can read them all during the summer. Besides the same book that cost me ¥30 would probably cost $60 if I buy it in America.

I wore graduation gowns today. My roommates and I took photos across the east campus. Afterwards, we went to celebrate at a restaurant. I drank a beer and got a headache. My face turned all red. I learned that 700mL is how much beer I can drink at a time. I think I was a little drunk because I did a little dance for no reason on our way to the internet bar after dinner. I watched the show Chinese Paladin all evening. Zhao Ling'er is really beautiful. I think I am in love with her.

I don't know when I will see my college roommates again. None of my 3 roommates are going to study in the US. On the "farewell notebook", I wrote best wishes and promised them that I will see them in 5 years after I finish graduate school. I know me, so I know I will keep the promise.

Will I ever see "watermelon-frost" again? Is she going to study in the US? I wish I still care, but I don't.

Fan
4/25/2007


"Dad! Mom! Come over here!"

"What happened?", his father opened the door to Fan's room and switched on the light.

"I have to leave for America in May. Before May 21st. There's an orientation. I just received this email from the University of Wisconsin."

"Okay, what does the email say, translate it sentence by sentence."

Fan read the email out loud in Chinese for his father while double checking his understanding of the content. The immediate challenge was how to buy a plane ticket. Fan knew his father had taken a plane before. He remembered that his father once left him and his mother a sealed envelope that contained a will and information of how to access a bank account in case of a plane crash. Fan never got to see the will because his father survived his round trip flights to Inner Mongolia.

"Okay, I will call the travel agency tomorrow." Fan's father pointed at a date on the calendar Fan already opened up on the computer screen, "Should I book a flight on May 14th?"

"I don't want to leave so early."

"How about May 18th?"

"I don't want to go to America before the summer ends."

"Do you have another option?"

Reluctantly Fan calculated the date. If he left China on May 18th, he would arrive at America still on May 18th because China was roughly 12 hours ahead of America. Taking into account that the actual flight plus layover would be longer than 12 hours, he would arrive at Madison at latest the morning of May 19th. Then he would have 2 days to recover from jet lags and settle down before attending the orientation.

"How about May 19th?" Fan wanted to have one more day at home.

"Only one day to settle down is too risky. You should leave plenty of rooms in travel plans" Fan's mother also joined the emergency meeting.

The whole family agreed on May 18th.

"Also I want to go to Beijing before leaving for America." Fan said.

"What? You don't have time to go to Beijing. You're going to America in two weeks. There's a lot preparation that needs to be done." Fan's father objected.

"Why do you want to go to Beijing?"

"No reason, I just want to visit a few places and come back." The place Fan wanted to visit was Beijing Film Academy. He thought he might run into Liu Yifei if he walked the campus.

"What's wrong with you? You are leaving for America in two weeks and now you want to go to Beijing? It takes at least a day to travel from Nanjing to Beijing. Our son is not sensible." Fan's father turns to his wife for support.

"What is this about? Did you meet a girl online?" Fan's mother sounds more understanding.

"I just want to go to Beijing for a day, what's the big deal?" Fan stormed out of the apartment. When he was in the stairwell, he heard his mother explaining to his father,

"I understand our son. When I was young, sometimes I had a thought in my head that I just could not let go. I just had to do it. Nobody could change my mind..."

Fan wandered on the street and went into an internet bar. He continued googling Liu Yifei. He could not really find a trustworthy source of information about her. But he was okay reading anything about her, even if they were garbage or lies, or information about someone with the same name. One piece of information caught his eyes. Someone said that Liu Yifei was going to study in Yale. Fan put two and two together and decided that Liu Yifei was not in Beijing, but in New Haven. Afterwards, Fan walked home and told his parents he did not want to go to Beijing anymore.

The next day Fan's father booked a plane ticket through a travel agency located in Shanghai. The ticket was from Shanghai to Madison, Wisconsin with 5.5 hours of layover at Chicago. The date of the flight was May 16th instead the agreed upon May 18th since that was the only date within their time frame that has the flight. According to the agency, Fan could board the plane with an ID without a plane ticket, but Fan's father decided to go to Shanghai to get the physical paper tickets that one can hold in his hands. Fan's father was just warming up to the idea of buying things online or over the phone, but for something as important as his son's flight to America, he would not trust a travel agency whose office he had never visited. Fan went with his father to Shanghai. A few weeks ago they had a similar trip for Fan's visa interview.

Hi Diary

I am going to have my visa interview tomorrow. I am worried that I could not understand the questions. I am worried that my visa might be rejected. Just remember you don't want to stay in America after finishing graduate school. I have all the documents ready. I have pictures with my parents showing my tie to my home country. I can only try my best, the rest is out of my hands.

There is a Nanjing Road in Shanghai and there is a Shanghai Road in Nanjing. You see foreigners everywhere in Shanghai. The Nanjing road is crowded with interesting shops with shining neon lights. Shanghai is such a fun place.

The US consulate turns out to be at 8th floor of a 32-story building where lower floors are basically shopping malls. My father and I stayed in a hotel that was only a block away. It was such a cheap hotel that it gave out a vibe of criminals' hideout. The restaurant on the first floor below the hotel was pretty good.

Fan
3/25/2007

Hi Diary

I am so happy now. I passed the visa interview. I got to the building at 9:45am. But there were so many people waiting there. I stood in line for an hour outside the building. After I got inside the building I stood in another line for half an hour watching people shopping. Then I said goodbye to my father and took the elevator to go to the 8th floor and stand in a new line for half an hour, where I saw a group of suited foreigners heading out for lunch. They look so professional and optimistic. They must work for the US consulate and I had so much respect for them. Finally I went through security check and got into the waiting area for visa interviews. I saw an interviewing officer repeatedly explaining to an old lady in Chinese, "This is your left hand, not your right hand." He spoke in Chinese with American accent and I doubt the lady understood his Chinese. The whole situation was funny until the lady was obviously rejected her visa, which was horrifying to look. I waited another half hour and it was my turn.

The interviewing officer took the finger prints of both of my thumbs and asked two questions as if he did not already know the answer. What school are going to? What is your major? I answered and passed. I never got to open my file folder full of supporting documents.

After that my father and I went to tour Fudan University because I wanted to visit a rivary school. My abstract algebra teacher used to teach in Fudan. He said that freshmen at Fudan were as smart as freshmen at USTC but over the years students at Fudan fell behind because they did not study as hard. Now I suspect that I would not study as hard if I were in Shanghai either. It was such a fun place. USTC is at Heifei. There is nothing to do there but study.

I am so happy!

Fan
3/26/2007

China was at dawn of building a massive net of high-speed rails. The difference between a high-speed train and a slow train was not just the speed. It was the whole experience. High-speed trains were clean and every passenger had a seat. A slow train was always dirty and often crowded. On average, people on a high-speed train dressed better than those on a slow train. It almost made sense to want a slow train to go faster and a high-speed train go slower. But pain usually dragged on and happiness went fast. For the moment, Fan and his father took an overnight slow train to Shanghai. Outside the train was pitch black, one could see the reflection of the dim inside of the carrail in the windows. It was crowded. Fan and his father stood in the passway between two rows of bench-like seats, their shoulders touched strangers' shoulders. Near Fan's feet, a man was sleeping on the floor under a seat. Fan thought he must be really tired because the floor was really dirty. Fan could not help but noticing how strong the man's forearms were. He had huge hands with thick fingers. There were dirt under all of his nails. As the train rattled, Fan tried to keep his balance so that he would not step on the man or accidentally kick his head. No one talked. Everyone, sleep or awake, listened to the kuh-tong, kuh-tong sound made by the train wheels rolling over rail gaps. Fan's father broke the silence when the man sitting in front of him started to get out a cigarette and a lighter.

"Whoa, there are so many people in such a stuffy area. Do you have to smoke?"

The man was huge, tall and heavy. He pretended not to hear anything.

"Can you not smoke in public?"

"What!", the man gave Fan's father a look and lighted up the cigarette.

Fan's father wanted to say something more, but Fan stopped him. Fan raised his arm in front his father's chest pretending to hold him back and said, "It's okay, let it go." It was Fan's way of de-escalating the situation while letting the man know that he and his father were together and if a fight ever happened, the man would fight two people. Fan knew they were going to lose if the huge man wanted physical confrontation, but he wondered if the man sleeping on the floor could beat the smoking man sitting above him.

The carrail was packed, Fan's father had no choice but being stuck there enduring the secondhand smoke. No one else complained. It was silence but kuh-tong, kuh-tong again. The man finished his cigarette and never lighted up another one afterwards.

It was early morning when Fan and his father got to downtown Shanghai. They walked the Nanjing road, but most shops were still closed. It was too early to head for the travel agency too. They decided to find a place to rest. They each found a bench and sleep on it like homeless people. It was not the first time Fan and his father slept on the street together, it was their second time.

Hi Diary

The semester is over. Summer holiday begins. Dad and I got up early today. We packed everything in two backpacks. I had a last look of the house I lived with my dad during the semester. It was bathed in sunshine. Dad and I took a detour on our way home. We took a train to Tunxi, hometown of my mom. The reason we're going is because it is also hometown of "watermelon-frost". I had three days full of happy memories with her last summer there. I want to show my father the places we went.

We took the same train "watermelon-frost" and I took together. It was a nice train. The windows had curtains, the carrail was clean and filled with sunshine. We re-visited her high school, the stadium she and I played ping-pong, the bar where she bought me orange juice, the old street full of shops and vendors. We did not go to the golf-court, which was too far away. In the evening, we went to the suspense bridge where she and I gazed at the water. One side of the bridge is a big plaza with fountains, sculptures and kids running around. I had tried to tell "watermelon-frost" I liked her at the plaza, but she sensed it and nipped it in the bud before I could finish my sentence. I didn't want to stay at my uncle's or my grandpa's, my father did not want to spend money for a hotel. So we slept at the plaza. It was hot even in the evening. We had to constantly wash off our sweat at the fountain.

Fan
6/27/2005

"Get up! You two cannot sleep here." An urban management officer spoke loudly to Fan and his father. 

Fan woke up and found there were a lot more people walking passing them than earlier. Fan's father apologized to the officer and checked his watch. It was time to go to the travel agency.

The next few days Fan was dragged by his parents to do shoppings. They bought jackets, sweaters, shirts, t-shirts, pants, underpants, long underpants, belts, socks, a wok, knives, chopsticks, batteries, a backpack, luggages. A Walmart recently opened at downtown Nanjing. Fan made a point of shopping there. During these shopping sprees, Fan's parents always argued about where to eat. Fan's mother wanted to eat at a restaurant wherever convenient. Fan's father wanted to walk distances just to get to a food place that was cheap. They usually ended up going different places to eat and meeting up later. Fan sometimes ate with his mother, sometimes ate with his father.

During the days before leaving for America, Fan was constantly trying to get himself ready. Fan had a hobby of riding a bike around downtown Nanjing. It allowed him to daydream among people. Now he found himself riding a bike to downtown bookstores and looking for answers in self-help books. Fan bought 2 new music CDs. One was a song track of the TV series Chinese Paladin. The other was Liu Yifei's debut album called Liu Yifei. He also planned to bring a walkman and a cassette tape of Xie Tingfeng's last album called "Release" to America. Xie Tingfeng had been a role model for Fan in terms of how to be cool facing the cruel world. His music helped Fan to find his identity when he felt lost, through high school and college. Fan owned ten seasons of Friends on DVD, and spent a lot of time watching the show again lately. Without turning on the Chinese subtitle, Fan could not really follow the show. But turning on the Chinese subtitle meant he was not really learning English. Fan was torn between wanting to enjoy the show and learning English.

The internet told Fan that American Barbers did not know how to cut hairs for Chinese. After discussing with his father, Fan decided not to have a hair cut in America for a long time. He went to a barber shop and told the barber to cut his hair to 3mm long. The barber gazed at his long bangs and asked Fan again and again whether he knew how long 3mm was, wether he was okay being almost bald, whether he was sure of his decision. Fan said yes, and remembered that the last time his hair was this short, he cried all night. It was two days before his first day of school in second grade.

Hi Diary

I hate my grandpa. He took me to a barber and told him to shave me bald because he was into Buddhism. When I knew what happened, it was already too late. I told the barber to stop otherwise I would only pay him half of the money. I only saved a little bit of hair in the front above my forehead.

To make me feel better, my father said I look like NBA basketball play Pippen. I don't know who he is. My mother admired me for being so reasonable at a such a young age and telling the barber I would only pay half of the money instead of not paying anything at all.

School starts in 2 days. I hope my hair grows back by then, otherwise I will not go to school.

Fan
8/29/1992

Almost every evening Fan and his parents took a walk after dinner inside the campus of NJUST (Nanjing University of Science and Technology). They lived there. 

"Do we have all the things we need?" Fan's mother asked.

"Oh, tomorrow don't forget to get some medicine from the university pharmacy." Fan's father replied.

"Yes, yes. I almost forgot. Fan do you need anything else?" Fan's mother asked.

"Can we stop talking about this? These days, all you guys talked about is buying this, buying that. I don't even have time to think about stuff. Have you ever asked what I need?" Fan was upset.

"I just asked what you need." Fan's mother was not getting it.

"Not things. I don't feel I am ready to go to America. I don't feel ready. I wish I have someone to talk about how I feel. I want to figure out what I am worrying about." Fan was shouting.

That night Fan opened up to his parents. His parents listened and listened. In the end, Fan felt better.

"Anything else you want to discuss?" Fan's mother asked.

"I still don't feel ready. But I feel much better. I guess I will never be ready." Fan felt relieved.

"It's after midnight, should we head home?" Fan's father suggested.

"Sure." Fan smiled.

Hi Diary

I have been very anxious about going to America. I know it is a good thing to study in America. But I don't feel it is a good thing. If I undergo depression again, my father would not be able to be there for me, then I am afraid I might commit suicide. 

Scratch that. I will be fine. I can handle the stress of school. I can handle the heartbreak of love. I cannot handle both of them at the same time. Just avoid that situation at all cost.

Fan
5/10/2007

Hi Diary

If you love him, bring him to New York, for it's heaven.
If you hate him, bring him to New York, for it's hell.

The TV series "A native of Beijing at New York" had done a number on me. When I watched the show at a tender age, I associated America with divorce, betrayal, empty street, and cold weather.

However today, there was a moment in Friends that touched me. A female singer, named Stephonie Shiffer, performed the song "Angel of the Morning" in the Central Perk cafe, replacing Phobe's "Smelly Cat". It was a sad day for Phobe and me. But the sunshine through the window behind Stephanie felt so warm. That moment, that scene, suddenly made me feel safe and warm. I could not explained it, but suddenly America did not feel like a scary place to be after all.

Fan
5/12/2007

